uh we just have to interrupt John an
whistle to uh have a listen to uh Mr
Martin griffits from the under Secretary
General of the humanitarian Affairs
emergency relief coordinator let's have
a listen as we have heard from The
Honorable president Fierce hostilities
continue across Gaza from the air sea
and now on the
ground casualties continue to amount
with the dead reportedly exceeding
11,000
people the majority of that astonishing
figure children and
women the actual total however is likely
to be much higher as figures have not
been updated for 5 days due to a
collapse of communication networks in
Gaza and due to the fact that bodies
under the rubble take time to be
discovered more than 41,000 housing
units have been destroyed or severely
damaged amounting to around
45% of the housing stock the total
housing stock in Gaza the nature and
scale of Civilian harm is characteristic
of the use of explosive weapons with
wide area effects in a densely populated
area and I
reminded that tomorrow
marks the first anniversary of the
adoption of the political Declaration on
strengthening the protection of
civilians from the humanitarian
consequences arising from the use of
explosive weapons in populated
areas there's no greater reminder of the
importance of its Universal endorsement
and
implementation than when what we see
today in Gaza
more than one and a half million Gins
are estimated to be internally displaced
many of them have fled southwards in
search as you said Mr President of
relative safety only to be now told to
relocate many for the second second time
to the
West nevertheless
nevertheless let us not forget hundreds
of thousands remain in the north but the
fierce fighting and bombardment is
taking place
there's little to no medical care
available in Northern
Gaza I look forward obviously to hearing
as we all do from Dr Tedros of wh and Dr
Madame Natalia of anra on this matter
out of 24 hospitals with inpatient
capacity in the north only
one Al in G Gaza City is presently oper
operational and admitting
patients 18 hospitals have shut down and
evacuated since the start of
hostilities another five hospitals
including alifa are providing extremely
limited services to patients already
admitted these hospitals are not
reliably
accessible because of
insecurity they do not have electricity
or essential supplies and they are not
admitting new
patients now we've all seen the fighting
in and around the alifa hospital in
recent days it behooves me once again
not for the first time as as others have
done so too to make clear that under
International humanitarian law all
parties must protect civilians and
civilian objects and these include
hospitals to ensure the wounded and sick
receive Medical
care hospitals have always had specific
protection this means
also this means also they must not be
used to Shield military objectives from
Attack this is also a breach of
international law it also means that
even if hospitals lose that
protection that I have spoken of
warnings and other precautions
must be implemented to avoid civilian
harm and of course disproportionate
attacks are strictly
prohibited across
Gaza but particularly in the north food
and water supplies are running
perilously low and you Mr President have
already mentioned the terrible
predictions from
unra the lack of f fuel means that
Communications and other essential
functions such as water desalination are
progressively dropping off
line and this despite recent agreements
to provide a modicum of fuel on a daily
basis excuse me across the
border civilians in Israel endure the
Deep pain of their own as They Mourn the
brutal
killing the inhumane
killing the sudden unnecessary
unacceptable killing of 1200
people new details of the horrors of 7th
of October emerge each
day Rockets continue to be fired into
populated areas and tens of thousands of
people are displaced let us not
forget nearly 240 hostages from babies
to
octogenarians face their 41st day of
captivity as you have said Mr President
they must be released immediately with
no
conditions in the interim they must be
treated humanely they must be allowed to
receive visits from the international
Committee of the Red Cross setup for
precisely this kind of
purpose my colleagues from the other un
agencies and
departments Dr Natalie from unra Dr
Tedros from World Health Organization Mr
aim Steiner undp commissioner High
Commissioner vul Turk Cindy
McCain Dr Natalia Canam and Miss Lana
Rik from UNICEF who join us today will
provide further detail on the horrendous
situation on the ground but it is
without doubt
a humanitarian
crisis that by any
measure and we have so many so many
measures in this angry world of ours is
intolerable and cannot continue in many
respects
International humanitarian law appears
to have been turned on its
head in this regard we welcome also the
resolution 37
2712 of
2023 adopted by the security Council on
Wednesday reaffirming that all parties
must adhere to their International legal
obligations this joins of course the
strong position Mr President as you have
mentioned set out by the general
assembly in its
resolution earlier on 26th of October on
the protection of civilians in the
occupied Palestinian territory and in
Israel this morning I want to set out
what
we at the office for the coordination of
humanitarian Affairs see as the
necessary requirements for the
humanitarian
response there are 10
points all of which are standard
practice for
humanitarians we have learned all over
the world in areas of the greatest
tragedy how to do this some of the worst
jobs in the world
most are underpinned by obligations
under IHL to take constant care to spare
civilians and to meet their essential
needs including by facilitating the
rapid and unimpeded passage of
humanitarian relief number
one we must be able to move from ad hoc
delivery of
assistance to a continuous flow of
Aid it's like anyone in any society in
any Village in any
Community civilians need to meet have
their essential needs met they need to
know when the next treatment or delivery
will happen they need to know it will be
unimpeded and they need to know that Aid
will
arrive number two more Crossing points
into Gaza for Aid and importantly
commercial deliveries of
ials addressing the scale of needs
across Gaza from a single crossing point
in the South as now is
logistically
impossible at the very least we need
permission to use the crossing point at
K
Shalom through which 60% of goods were
in the
past delivered before those hostilities
began in October number three
fuel as we have highlighted repeatedly
fuel is critical for the onward
distribution of Aid throughout Gaza the
trucks that come in through Rafa and
offload to the warehouse in Rafa are
then
reloaded on for onward distribution of
Aid to the people of Gaza and for the
functioning including through fuel for
the functioning of vital services in
other words fuel is essential very very
simply for keeping people alive in the
past few days I'm very glad to say and
to announce anra has rece has been
allowed to receive 24,000 lers of fuel
for two days of Aid distribution within
Gaza this is most
welcome it is also a fraction of what is
needed to meet the minimum of our
humanitarian respon responsibilities
across Gaza north and south to do so I'm
sure anro will speak to this the
requirement is 10
times as much or around
200,000 liters per day number
four we need to have the security
assurances and additional facilities to
establish relief distribution hubs
particularly in the south of Gaza
Mr President you will know very well
humanitarian operations depend on
shelter which is safe and identified and
distribution hubs which are used as
places where families can visit or from
which deliveries to families can be
made we need those distribution
hubs
identified
deconflict agreed as safe particularly
in the south of Gaza these will be
locations where people know they can
access Aid and as jumping off points for
the comprehensive delivery of aid number
five safe and unimpeded access for
humanitarian organization to Del deliver
Aid throughout Gaza this is of course is
a point which hardly needs restating it
requires a facilitation of access and
needs assurances for the security of
humanitarian personnel and assets and as
you have said Mr President anra our
brave brave brave colleagues of unra
have already suffered over a hundred
deaths from their Brave Personnel in
Gaza which brings me to
six an improved humanitarian
notification system this aims to ensure
and again it is common in many parts of
the world where there are humanitarian
operations it aims to ensure that the
parties have the information they need
to meet their
implications sorry their obligations to
protect and facilitate humanitarian
operations we notify them of convoys
movements or of places where relief is
to be distributed or of shelters where
people need to be
safe and their obligation is to protect
those places number seven civilians must
be allowed to move to safer areas and
when circumstances allow to voluntarily
return to their residences civilian
movement is a privilege protected under
international law they choose where they
want to go where they want to be safe
and where they want to move this
connects directly to number eight we
need to expand
the number of shelters for displaced
civilians across
Gaza hundreds and thousand excuse me
hundreds of thousands have so far taken
shelter in unra
facilities these shelters the heroic
efforts of unra have been the buffer
between survival and tragedy for so many
of these people and still are but these
facilities as you have said Mr President
are overcrowded
overburdened
overwhelmed we need to expand the number
of locations and Facilities I referred
earlier to the issue of distribution
points particularly in the South where
hundreds of thousands of civilians
continue to arrive we need a stretch of
places where people will shelter will be
safe and where the parties will be
notified of their presence I'm number
nine
funding impossible to have a
humanitarian speech without a reference
to funding I'm
afraid humanitarian operations cannot
proceed without the money to fund them
the emergency appeal for Gaza brought
out just recently by my office amounts
to
$1.2 billion doar
1.2 billion dollar so
far we have received
$132
million what is this 10th to do our job
to reach those people in need we need
the funds to buy the supplies to run the
trucks to repurpose the
schools to pay for the salaries of those
Brave health workers who remain number
10 and you mentioned it yourself Mr
President a humanitarian
ceasefire you can call it what you will
and everyone has many different words
for it but the requirement from a
humanitarian point of view is very
simple stop the
fighting to allow civilians to move
safely do it for an indefinite
period to facilitate an unimpeded
humanitarian
response give the people of Gaza a
breather from the terrible things that
have been put on them of these last few
weeks and without condition release all
the
hostages we need the full leverage of
the UN membership to achieve these
objectives and as we know from the
speakers Mr President that you have
lined up for this informal session we
have the means to do the job that we
have done elsewhere and that we can do
here we're not asking for the Moon we're
asking for the basic measures required
to meet the essential needs of the
civilian population and St the course of
this extraordinary
unexpected un necessary and unacceptable
crisis for as dire as the situation is
in Gaza we all know in this room it
could get far
worse I have as many others do real
actions that if we do do not take action
now this is a
conflict that could spread its tendrils
further into other parts of the occupied
pal Palestinian territory and Beyond and
drag the region into a
configuration with catastrophic
consequences which will make
today look like a day of comparative
safety and it is not so thank you Mr
president okay that was uh the UN relief
Chief Martin griffi speaking at the
United Nations General Assembly you
heard him there at